[PL-40533] Custom Certificate Management (#5448)
harness/developer-hub: docs/platform/certificates/add-custom-certificate.md

---
title: Add a custom certificate to Harness Platform

> description: Doc explaining steps to add your own signed custom certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: This topic explains how to add your own signed custom certificate.
```

sidebar_position: 
helpdocs_topic_id: 
helpdocs_category_id: 
helpdocs_is_private: true
helpdocs_is_published: false

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Add a custom certificate
---
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info note
Currently, this feature is behind the feature flag `PL_CENTRAL_CERTIFICATES_MANAGEMENT`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
:::
```

## Custom Certificate Feature Overview

> The Custom Certificate Feature within Harness offers a robust solution for managing the lifecycle of certificates at all hierarchical levels within Harness, including accounts, organizations, and projects. This feature is designed to bolster security measures and simplify the process of digital certificate management across the Harness platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Custom Certificate Feature offers a robust solution for managing the lifecycle of certificates at all hierarchical levels within Harness, including accounts, organizations, and projects. This feature is designed to bolster security measures and simplify the process of digital certificate management across the Harness platform.
```

### Key Features

- **Scope Availability**: Enables the creation and management of certificates at all hierarchical levels within Harness, including account, organization, and project scopes.
- **Lifecycle Management**: Offers comprehensive management capabilities for certificates, encompassing creation, viewing, editing, and deletion.
- **Integration with Connectors**: Provides specialized support for integration with HashiCorp Vault connectors, ensuring secure connections and streamlined operations within external systems. This will be followed up with more connectors integration.

### Adding a Custom Certificate

To integrate a custom certificate, navigate to the `Account Settings`, `Organization Settings`, or `Project Settings` based on the desired scope for the certificate addition.

> #### Navigation Steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
####Navigation steps
```

> 

Reviewer: We may not need Navigation steps since the instructions to add certificates include the nav steps. Not sure this section provides additional value. Please consider removing the section and incorporating in the task steps below. This will also help round out step by step instructions for the task.

1. Within the chosen settings page, locate and select the `Certificates` option to access the certificate management page. This page displays all existing certificates under the specified scope.

2. Click on the `New Certificate` button to initiate the creation of a new certificate.

> 

Reviewer: Recommend using device-agnostic "Select" when possible and using concise directions. "Click on the" can be shortened to simply "Select." For more info, go to https://harness.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOCS/pages/21544468526/Harness+documentation+style+guide#UI-elements-and-code. It's also not necessary to use "button" following the UI element. As part of our style, we use bold for UI elements, so the user will know to look for the button/element. This also helps with conciseness in our content.

1. **Overview Section**: Input the certificate's Name, Tags (optional), and Description (optional). Proceed by clicking on `Continue`.
2. **Details Page**: Input the TLS Certificate in X.509 Format. This section also allows the chaining of multiple certificates to enhance flexibility in certificate management. Finalize by clicking on `Save`.
3. **Confirmation**: Upon successful creation, a notification will appear: `Certificate [certificateName] created successfully`.

**Note**: Should the certificate details fail validation, an error message will be displayed: `Invalid request: Certificate is not a valid X509 Certificate`.

Editing and deletion options are available for each certificate. However, certificates currently in use by connectors cannot be directly deleted to avoid service disruptions. Future updates will introduce a forced deletion option for comprehensive management.

### Utilizing Certificates in Connectors

Integrating certificates with connectors is essential for securing communications and operations. Currently, Harness supports certificate integration exclusively with the HashiCorp Vault connector.

#### Steps to Add a Certificate to a Connector:

> 

Reviewer: When referring to UI pages, we don't use code ticks or bold format.

> 1. Navigate to the `Connectors` page and select the desired connector for certificate integration. Enter the edit mode and proceed until reaching the `SSL/TLS Certificate` section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to the Connectors page and select the desired connector for certificate integration. Enter the edit mode and proceed until reaching the **SSL/TLS Certificate** section.
```

2. In the `SSL/TLS certificate for this connector` dropdown, select the certificate you wish to associate. Apply the selection, continue through the setup, and perform a connection test to confirm the integration's success.

> **Important Note**: For configurations using a root token, it is mandatory to set the `Renewal Interval` to `0`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::important note
 For configurations using a root token, you must set the **Renewal Interval** to `0`.
 
 :::
```

---
title: Add a custom certificate to Harness Platform
description: This topic explains how to add your own signed custom certificate.

> sidebar_position: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_position: 1
```

> sidebar_position: 

Reviewer: Adding a sidebar_position here will fix your PR build. Right now, it's failing because it can' process the metadata.

sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Add a custom certificate
---
:::info note
Currently, this feature is behind the feature flag `PL_CENTRAL_CERTIFICATES_MANAGEMENT`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
:::

The Custom Certificate Feature offers a robust solution for managing the lifecycle of certificates at all hierarchical levels within Harness, including accounts, organizations, and projects. This feature is designed to bolster security measures and simplify the process of digital certificate management across the Harness platform.

## Key features

- **Scope Availability**: Enables the creation and management of certificates at all hierarchical levels within Harness, including account, organization, and project scopes.
- **Lifecycle Management**: Offers comprehensive management capabilities for certificates, encompassing creation, viewing, editing, and deletion.
- **Integration with Connectors**: Provides specialized support for integration with HashiCorp Vault connectors, ensuring secure connections and streamlined operations within external systems. This will be followed up with more connectors integration.

> ## Add a custom certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> To integrate a custom certificate, navigate to the **Account Settings**, **Organization Settings**, or **Project Settings** based on the desired scope for the certificate addition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Create a certificate

To add a new certificate within Harness, follow these steps to navigate through the portal and input the necessary details:

1. Navigate to the preferred settings page (**Account Settings, Organization Settings,** or **Project Settings**) based on the scope where you want to add the certificate. Within this page, locate and click on the **Certificates** option. This action will take you to the certificate management page, where you can view all existing certificates under the selected scope.

2. On the certificate management page, click on **New Certificate**.

> 3. In the **Overview** Section, enter the certificate's Name, and optionally add **Tags** and a **Description**. Ensure all details are accurate and reflective of the certificate's purpose. Once completed, click on **Continue** to proceed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. In the **Overview** section, enter the certificate's **Name**, and optionally add **Tags** and a **Description**. 
7. Select **Continue**. The **Details** page opens.
```

> 4. Move to the **Details** Page, where you're required to input the **TLS Certificate** in the **X.509 Format**. This section also provides the option to chain multiple certificates, offering enhanced flexibility for certificate management. Ensure that the certificate details are correctly entered and conform to the **X.509** standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Input the **TLS Certificate** in the **X.509 Format**. This section also provides the option to chain multiple certificates, offering enhanced flexibility for certificate management. Ensure that the certificate details are correctly entered and conform to the **X.509** standard.
```

> 5. After entering all necessary details, click on Save to finalize the creation of the certificate. A confirmation notification will then appear, indicating **Certificate [certificateName] created successfully**, which signifies that the certificate has been successfully created and is now part of your Harness environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
9. Select **Save** to finalize the creation of the certificate. A confirmation notification appears, indicating **Certificate [certificateName] created successfully**. The certificate has been successfully created and is now part of your Harness environment.
```

   ![](./static/TLSCertFormat.png)

:::info note
If the certificate details fail validation, an error message will be displayed: `Invalid request: Certificate is not a valid X509 Certificate`.

:::

Editing and deletion options are available for each certificate. However, certificates currently in use by connectors cannot be directly deleted to avoid service disruptions. Future updates will introduce a forced deletion option for comprehensive management.

## Use certificates in connectors

Integrating certificates with connectors is essential for securing communications and operations. Currently, Harness supports certificate integration exclusively with the HashiCorp Vault connector.

> ## Add a certificate to a connector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add a certificate to a connector
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add a certificate to a HashiCorp Vault connector at the account, organization, or project scope. In this example, we'll add a certificate to a HashiCorp Vault connector at the account scope.

To add a certificate to a HashiCorp Vault connector, do the following:
```

> 1. Navigate to the Connectors page and select the desired connector for certificate integration. Enter the edit mode and proceed until reaching the **SSL/TLS Certificate** section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Sign in to Harness.
2. Select **Account Settings**. The Account Settings page opens.
3. Under **Account-level resources**, select **Connectors**. The Account Resources: Connectors page opens.
4. Select the desired HashiCorp Vault connector for certificate integration.
5. Select **Edit Details**.
6. Go to the **SSL/TLS Certificate** section.
```

> 2. In the **SSL/TLS certificate for this connector** dropdown, select the certificate you wish to associate. Apply the selection, continue through the setup, and perform a connection test to confirm the integration's success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. In the **SSL/TLS certificate for this connector** dropdown, select the certificate you want to add to the connector.
8. Apply the selection, continue through the setup, and perform a connection test to confirm the integration's success.
```

---
title: Add a custom certificate to Harness Platform
description: This topic explains how to add your own signed custom certificate.
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: Add a custom certificate
---
:::info note
Currently, this feature is behind the feature flag `PL_CENTRAL_CERTIFICATES_MANAGEMENT`. Contact [Harness Support](mailto:support@harness.io) to enable the feature.
:::

The Custom Certificate feature offers a robust solution for managing the lifecycle of certificates at all hierarchical levels within Harness, including accounts, organizations, and projects. This feature is designed to bolster security measures and simplify the process of digital certificate management across the Harness platform.

## Key features

- **Scope Availability**: Enables the creation and management of certificates at all hierarchical levels within Harness, including account, organization, and project scopes.

> - **Lifecycle Management**: Offers comprehensive certificate management capabilities, encompassing creation, viewing, editing, and deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Lifecycle Management**: Provides complete certificate management functionality, including the ability to create, view, edit, and delete certificates.
```

> - **Integration with Connectors**: Provides specialized support for integration with HashiCorp Vault connectors, ensuring secure connections and streamlined operations within external systems. This will be followed up with more connectors integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Integration with Connectors**: Provides specialized support for integration with HashiCorp Vault connectors, ensuring secure connections and streamlined operations within external systems. We plan to integrate more connector integration in future development.
```

## Create a certificate

> You can create a certificate at the account, organization, or project scope. In this example, we'll create a certificate at the account scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a certificate at the account, organization, or project scope.
```

To add a new certificate, do the following:

> 1. Sign in to Harness.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In Harness, go to **Account Settings**, **Organization Settings**, or **Project Settings**, depending on the [scope](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/role-based-access-control/rbac-in-harness/#permissions-hierarchy-scopes) at which you want to create the certificate.
```

> 2. Select **Account Settings**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 3. Under **Account-level resources**. The Account Settings page opens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 4. Select **Certificates**. The action Certificate Management page opens, where you can view all existing certificates under the selected scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 4. Select **Certificates**. The action Certificate Management page opens, where you can view all existing certificates under the selected scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Select **Certificates**. The action Certificate Management page opens, where you can view all existing certificates under the selected scope.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 5. Select **New Certificate**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Select **New Certificate**.
```

> 6. In the **Overview** section, enter the certificate's **Name**, and optionally add **Tags** and a **Description**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. In the **Overview** section, enter the certificate's **Name**, and optionally add **Tags** and a **Description**. 
```

> 7. Select **Continue**. The **Details** page opens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Select **Continue**. The **Details** page opens.
```

> 8. Input the **TLS Certificate** in the **X.509 Format**. This section also provides the option to chain multiple certificates, offering enhanced flexibility for certificate management. Ensure that the certificate details are correctly entered and conform to the **X.509** standard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Input the **TLS Certificate** in the **X.509 Format**. This section also provides the option to chain multiple certificates, offering enhanced flexibility for certificate management. Ensure that the certificate details are correctly entered and conform to the **X.509** standard.
```

> 9. Select **Save** to finalize the creation of the certificate. A confirmation notification appears, indicating **Certificate [certificateName] created successfully**. The certificate has been successfully created and is now part of your Harness environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Select **Save** to finalize the creation of the certificate. A confirmation notification appears, indicating **Certificate [certificateName] created successfully**. The certificate has been successfully created and is now part of your Harness environment.
```

   ![](./static/TLSCertFormat.png)

:::info note
If the certificate details fail validation, an error message will be displayed: `Invalid request: Certificate is not a valid X509 Certificate`.

:::

> Editing and deletion options are available for each certificate. However, certificates currently in use by connectors cannot be directly deleted to avoid service disruptions. Future updates will introduce a forced deletion option for comprehensive management.

Reviewer 2: This whole support is recently merged and UI support is still pending. Current state in prod is that user can delete certificate even if it is used. We can choose to remove this para or wait this feature is rolled out to prod.

Author: I am thinking of keeping this, because this documentation will only be released when the whole Cert Manager feature is rolled out to prod. 

This also depends:
1. Are you adding the deletion of the certificate even if it is used in the prod release?
2. Or will you first release the basic version where users cannot delete the certificate when in use, and later down the line you will add a feature of deletion of the certificate even when it is use

cc: @pratmit What do you suggest?

Reviewer 3: @nishantsaini20 when the functionality is supposed to go.

## Use certificates in connectors

Integrating certificates with connectors is essential for securing communications and operations. Currently, Harness supports certificate integration exclusively with the HashiCorp Vault connector.

### Add a certificate to a connector
You can add a certificate to a HashiCorp Vault connector at the account, organization, or project scope. In this example, we'll add a certificate to a HashiCorp Vault connector at the account scope.

To add a certificate to a HashiCorp Vault connector, do the following:
1. Sign in to Harness.
2. Select **Account Settings**. The Account Settings page opens.
3. Under **Account-level resources**, select **Connectors**. The Account Resources: Connectors page opens.
4. Select the desired HashiCorp Vault connector for certificate integration.
5. Select **Edit Details**.
6. Go to the **SSL/TLS Certificate** section.
7. In the **SSL/TLS certificate for this connector** dropdown, select the certificate you want to add to the connector.

> 8. Apply the selection, continue through the setup, and perform a connection test to confirm the integration's success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Apply the selection, continue through the setup, and perform a connection test to confirm the integration's success.
```
